# Project structure

This program consists of three separeate program modules: `train`, `markovChain` and `bruteForce`. `train` generates training result file, that consists of password guesses. Guesses are based on n-gram probabilities of user given training file. Based on the result file `markovChain` tries each generated guess against user given password(s). `bruteForce` generates every possible guess and tries the guesses against user given password(s).

# Implemented time and space complexities

The time complexities of the implementations can be found in the [definition](./project_definitions.md) document.

# Comparative performance analysis

The program was tested by using the leaked password file of the company named RockYou. Sample contained all the passwords that started with the letter r or s. The total number of such passwords was 11260. Then 11160 of passwords were randomly selected and used as a training file. Remaining 100 passwords were used as input passwords that were tested against the passwords generated by markov model. From the sample containing 11160 passwords the markov model was able to generate 164597 guesses.

When the 164597 guesses were compared against the remaining 100 passwords that were not used in the model there were 7 matches. From those 100 there were 0 dublicates when they were compared to training data. Therefore all the guesses that were successfull were passwords that wasn't found on the training data. When this experiment was repeated the success rate was between 6-10%.

Training of the model took 5 minutes and 6 seconds. Some of the passwords successfully guessed by markov chain based guesser were 8 characters long. Therefore it was not feasible to compare brute force to markov chain based method because only guessing that one eight character password would have taken days.

# Possible flaws and improvements

Markov chain based method could have been implemented more efficiently.